3-D HF Prop Simulation/Call-04
BAA Bi-Weekly Tag-up with AFRL, BC, ERT
2020 03 23

Considerable discussion over the software name of RIPE. BC commented that the minimalist Python code which they first delivered has been augmented by code from ROAM.

B.C. is quite happy with Chris's decomposition and will email a few comments to Chris. B.C. confessed that the definition of RIPE has been drifting with time.

Nelson asks Dima for a list of the 11 ionospheric parameters which will specify the fundamental four, the latest eight.

Nelson asks: Is there a specification for the grid to create a true electron density profile (EDP)?
Dima: A true EDP is provided to PhaRLaP for interpolation.

Nelson: The fundamental four parameters don't exploit the E region.
Dima: Full RIPE + ROAM + PhaRLaP are needed for a full EDP which is generated as part of the grid.

Nelson wants to generate data for a ray tracer and wants eight parameters to define bottom side.

Dima: RIPE classic uses four parameters; ROAM uses 11. The other seven are provided by either IRI or a digisonde.

Nelson: We need a full parameter set to develop an EDP.

Nelson: The JSON file needs enough information to specify the bottom side instance.

Dima: We need E layer information to run IRI and pass foE.

Nelson: Avoid computation in the browser.

Eric: we have an initial mock GUI which Nelson has seen and accepted.

Nelson: Regarding the rocket and canister release, POET is to simply provide the (x, y, z) coordinates for a release point.

The 110 oddity: Matt and Dima discussed how IRI may default to a value of 110 for hmE if no value is provided. Dima suggested a return value of -1 if no hmE is supplied.

Jon White worked on minor JavaScript bugs this weekend and is awaiting results on his COVID-19 test. The 2D ray tracer is not working in JS. He noted a difference in the exponential function between JS and C and agreed to provide a table of entries for x and exp(x) from JS, and exp(x) from C.

Issues and risks:
Should the JSON file use the set of 11 parameters? Let's wait for Dima's writeup. The Nelson will decide.

Ye: Significant risk factor is external dependence upon PhaRLaP. Can we get by using the present rustic ray tracers which don't accommodate a magnetic field?
Keith: At low latitudes a sophisticated ray tracer is not needed. Early work in mid latitudes suggests the X and O differences will be appreciable.
